# Mapping the Space

During this exercise, we can see that there are two different
communities that come together to form what we might call the HPC
community, and you might guess this comes down to users (researchers,
research software engineers) and admins (system administrators and also
research software engineers). You'll notice that research software
engineers can be part of both groups, which is why the profession has
been helpful to shed light on the needs of the user base. The two groups
include:

-   users

-   admins

And the two groups can view the same ecosystem in very different ways.
The two groups can also have some overlap in shared value for software
or services, however not everything has perfect overlap. In many cases,
even the user community is broken into smaller user communities based on
domain of science, or preferred tools. For example, a physics group at a
national lab might use a lot of MPI or Fortran codes, while a
neuroimaging lab's bread and butter is launching SLURM jobs with a
container technology. This realization requires us to make a distinction
between the two groups, and clarify that RSE-ops does not include domain
or scientific libraries, but all of the testing, infrastructure, and
support tools around them. We are making an effort to map out this
space, which can be viewed at <https://vsoch.github.io/rse-ops/>. We are
also clearly noting that RSE-ops extends beyond HPC (but includes it).
<br><br>
{% bibliography --cited %}