The role of Research Software Engineer (RSE) has been emerging in the
last decade, and due to the hybrid nature of working environments across
cloud, and HPC, DevOps practices are logically being adopted. So if
DevOps is the intersection of \"Developer\" and \"Operations,\" then how
does this concept map to this new space, where high performance
computing, or more generally, Research Software Engineering is at the
forefront?

Inspired by DevOps, we can define a similar term for the Research
Software Engineering community to also inspire collaboration and
champion best practices -- RSE-ops. Research Software Engineers (RSEs)
{% cite rse-history %} are those individuals that write code for scientific
software, and more generally support researchers to use codes on high
performance computing systems, cloud services, and lab computers. Akin
to traditional Software Engineers at major tech companies, they are
responsible not just for software development, but also for deployment
of analysis pipelines and general services. It can be noted that we are
not calling the new term RseDevOps (dropping \"Dev\"), and this is done
intentionally as the term \"Research Software Engineering\" encompasses
this \"Development\" portion. RSE-ops, then, appropriately refers to
best practices for ensuring the same reliability, scale, collaboration,
and software engineering for research codes. We may not always be
running a scaled web service, but we might be running scaled jobs on a
manager, profiling performance, or testing software in development.

Thus, RSE-ops is the intersection of Research Software Engineering and
Operations, and generally refers to best practices for development and
operations of scientific software. Arguably, the RSE community has just
as much to gain by building community and putting structure around these
practices. It's important to note that while high performance computing
(HPC) has traditionally been a large part of scientific computation,
researchers have extended their tools to also use cloud services and
other non-HPC tools, so HPC is only considered a subset of Research
Software Engineering and thus RSE-ops. Many modern applications are
web-based and extend beyond HPC, and so it is important to consider this
set as part of the larger scientific or research software engineering
universe. However, the dual need to run or deploy application across
environments presents greater challenges for the community.
<br><br>
{% bibliography --cited %}